Now before we can move on to
writing some actual express code,
we first need to install yet
another tool,
and this time it's an
app called Postman.
And Postman is a beautiful tool
that allows us to do API testing.
It's a little bit like a browser
but it doesn't render any html
or any visible websites to us.
Instead we can do all kinds of requests
and then receive the response simply
as text then work with that response.
So as they say Postman simplifies API development
and that really is true.
And that kind of is the standard
application that you will see everyone
using basically for testing APIs.
But you can do a lot more than just testing
and we will see many of these features
throughout this course.
For now, just head over to getpostman.com
So, as you can see here in the url
and then here on product, just hit Postman.
Then finally download the app,
and then download.
So, I'm not going to download it right now,
of course I already have it installed.
And so let's now take a look at how
Postman actually works.
So I'm going to open up Postman.
That takes a little time,
and so here we go this is
how Postman looks like.
And probably when you downloaded yours,
it's going to be in a light version,
but if you like the dark mode, like me,
just open up the settings and on themes,
you can just use the dark theme over here.
All right, so as I said, it's a little
bit like a browser where in here we
can enter a url and do the request.
Now, it does allow us to do all kinds
of requests, where in the browser
whatever we put in here in the url bar,
it's always going to be a get request.
But here we can change that, we can use
get or post or put or patch and all
these http methods here.
Where some of them we have already
talked about before, and will keep
talking about in this section. Okay?
Now just to test it very quickly,
Let's use again the dog API that we used before.
So that was at
dog.ceo
then dog API then let's
just simply use this url here
Okay. And so all we have to do is
to put it here, this case we really want
a get request and then send.
And after some time, it should
then show up down here.
And indeed, here we go.
So, that is the Json data just
as we expected it. Okay.
So it looks exactly like what
we have here.
Right?
Now we can then actually save
these requests here, and we
can create collections and folders
to organize our requests.
We can run automatic tests.
We can set up different development
environments or production environments
and all kinds of other useful stuff.
Like sending data in the body for
a post request or a patch request.
Or we can set headers or really,
all you can imagine about building APIs.
So from now on, in the next couple sections,
we're always going to be using
Postman to run or request.
Okay.
So this was just a very quick demo
of Postman so that starting now
we can start building our API
then test it using this tool.